\pagebreak

## Event History

The tab is intended for displaying events that are stored in the device non-volatile memory.

\imgcapt{img/06-15-config-history-01.png}{“Event history” tab}


To load events from the device to the configurator, click the "Update" button. 

> The list of events that is displayed on the "Event history" tab is not automatically updated: to see what changes have occurred in the history of events over time, click the "Update" button again.

\imgcapt{img/06-15-config-history-02.png}{“Event history” tab, event list}

The volume of device non-volatile memory allows to save at least 10,000 events. But on the “Event history" tab, no more than 200 recent events are displayed. Use the _Save to file.._ button to download the full list of events to a file with the extension _.csv_.

The following information is displayed for each event history:

* time when the event was generated by the device and stored in non-volatile memory;
* code of the event, which is transmitted to the receiver;
* text description of the event;
* the number of the site for which the event was generated;
* partition number;
* zone or user number;
* information about the current state of the event (column "Sent"):
	 * if the event is waiting for transmission, a "dash" is displayed;
	 * if the event is sent to the receiver, information about the transmission channel is displayed, as well as the time when the confirmation of the event reception;
	 * if event sending was canceled from the configurator, information about this event is displayed, as well as the time when the transmission was cancelled.
To cancel the transmission of all waiting events to the receiver, click the "Mark all events as sent" button.

> When an event is created, it receives a unique sequence number. The order of event numbering *does not depend* on the time that is set on the device: events created earlier have a smaller number, events created later have larger numbers. On the "Event history" tab, events are displayed in the reverse order: events created later are displayed above, and events created earlier are lower in the list.

