\pagebreak

## Radio {#config-radio}

"Nord GSM Mini" can transmit events to the receiver not only via GSM and Ethernet, but also via the radio channel. Radio transmission can be done both in the duplication mode, when all events are always sent by radio, and in the backup mode, when the events are transmitted by radio if there is no IP communication with the receiver.

> Radio transmission is performed *only* in the EPAF protocol, PAF protocol support is not provided.

### Radio channel settings

\imgcapt{img/06-09-config-nord-01.png}{“Radio” tab, “Radio channel settings” section}

In the "Radio channel settings" section, the parameters that the device will use when transmitting events by radio are specified.

Use “Operation mode" parameter to specify the mode in which radio transmission will be performed:

* "Transmitter not connected" - radio transmission will not be performed;
* "Transmit when no IP communication available" - the radio transmission will be performed only if the device does not have a connection to the receiver via IP communication channels (Ethernet or GPRS);
* "Always transmit" - all events generated by the device will always be transmitted by radio.

The "Station format" parameter specifies the key that is used when encoding the packages when transmitting by radio. The format for each station "CMS-420"/"Sentinel" is specified by the manufacturer at the station delivery and is specified in its accompanying documentation.

Since there is no acknowledgment of event reception from the station when transmitting by radio, the site device transmits the same message repeatedly. The information encoded for radio transmission corresponding to the event is called a frame. A few frames that are transmitted in succession, without a pause between them, are called a package. Several packages that are sent to the station with a pause between them are called a parcel. Thus, when transmitted by radio, each event will be transmitted in the form of one parcel, the parameters for the formation of which can be specified.

The "Test transfer interval" parameter is used to check the efficiency of the radio transmission channel. With its help, it is possible to set the maximum interval after which the device shall receive any event by radio. This interval is always counted from the last event that was transmitted by radio. If after the interval expires there are no events to be transmitted by radio, a test event will be generated and transmitted. 

> It is necessary to understand that test events with a given interval are transmitted regardless of the presence of IP communication with the receiver: even if the radio transmission channel is used as a backup channel and the *events* are transmitted by radio only if there is no IP connection with the receiver, test events will be transmitted at a specified interval. 

### Partition site numbers

\imgcapt{img/06-09-config-nord-02.png}{“Radio” tab, “Partition site numbers” section}

Since the radio transmission protocol does not allow the use of partition numbers, for each partition of the control panel it is necessary to specify the site number that will be used for transmission by radio. 

It is strongly recommended to specify such site partition numbers so that they do not coincide with either the site number that is set on the “Security Center” tab or with the site numbers of other partitions. This is necessary so that the events formed by the partition can be distinguished from the service events formed by the device, and in addition, from the events formed by another partition.

### Device in metal case

If it is assumed that the control panel will work by radio, then it is delivered in a metal case. 
On the one hand, the metal case has large dimensions compared to plastic. But on the other hand, these dimensions give it a number of advantages, including when using a radio channel:

* there is room for installing a radio transmitter;
* the case itself serves as a counterbalance to the pin antenna;
* it is possible to install a wired expander and CN-WRL wireless expander. Thus, up to 16 wired zones and up to 31 wireless devices can be connected to the "Nord GSM Mini" device in the metal case;
* it is possible to install a battery of a larger capacity - up to 7.2 A*h.
